# Getting help

## Discord

Our team collaboration is done in public and our company Discord is open to all. If you have questions or need help getting started, our [Discord #engineering channel](https://www.originprotocol.com/discord) is a great place to get assistance from our team of engineers and developers.

## Email

You can also reach us by email at [support@originprotocol.com](mailto:support@originprotocol.com).

# Contributing

Want to hack on Origin? Awesome!

Origin is an Open Source project and we welcome contributions of all sorts.
There are many ways to help, from reporting issues, contributing code, and
helping us improve our community.

There are three main repositories:

- [Platform](https://github.com/OriginProtocol/platform) - solidity contracts and the origin.js API
- [Demo-DApp](https://github.com/OriginProtocol/demo-dapp) - example react powered front end 
- [Bridge Server](https://github.com/OriginProtocol/bridge-server) - python indexing and search server

### Dive Right In

If you're ready to start hacking on Origin right now and you just need an issue to focus on, check out [this search of all our currently open issues on Github](https://github.com/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=user%3AOriginProtocol+is%3Aopen+&type=Issues).

Read our [community guidelines](#community-guidelines) first and have fun!

### Protocol Design

When considering protocol or implementation design proposals, we are looking for:

- A description of the problem this design proposal solves
- Discussion of the trade-offs involved
- Review of other existing solutions
- Links to relevant literature (RFCs, papers, etc)
- Discussion of the proposed solution

Please note that protocol design is hard, and meticulous work. You may need to review existing literature and think through generalized use cases.

### Community Guidelines

We want to keep the Origin community awesome, growing and collaborative. We need your help to keep it that way. To help with this we've come up with some general guidelines for the community as a whole:

- Be nice: Be courteous, respectful and polite to fellow community members: no regional, racial, gender, or other abuse will be tolerated. We like nice people way better than mean ones!

- Encourage diversity and participation: Make everyone in our community feel welcome, regardless of their background and the extent of their contributions, and do everything possible to encourage participation in our community.

- Keep it legal: Basically, don't get anybody in trouble. Share only content that you own, do not share private or sensitive information, and don't break laws.

- Stay on topic: Make sure that you are posting to the correct channel and avoid off-topic discussions. Remember when you update an issue or respond to an email you are potentially sending to a large number of people. Please consider this before you update. Also remember that nobody likes spam.

### Reporting Issues

If you find bugs, mistakes or inconsistencies in the Origin project's code or
documents, please let us know by filing an issue at the appropriate issue
tracker (we use multiple repositories). 

<aside class="notice">
No issue is too small. Help us fix our tpyos!
</aside>

 - [Docs issues](https://github.com/OriginProtocol/docs/issues)
 - [Origin.js issues](https://github.com/OriginProtocol/origin-js/issues)
 - [Demo Dapp issues](https://github.com/OriginProtocol/demo-dapp/issues)
 - [Company website issues](https://github.com/OriginProtocol/company-website/issues)

### Security Issues

The Origin Protocol and its implementations are still in heavy development. This means that there may be problems in our protocols, or there may be mistakes in our implementations. We take security vulnerabilities very seriously. If you discover a security issue, please bring it to our attention right away!

If you find a vulnerability please send your report privately to [security@originprotocol.com](mailto:security@originprotocol.com) or [contact Josh Fraser via Keybase](https://keybase.io/joshfraser). Please DO NOT file a public issue.

If the issue is a protocol weakness or something not yet deployed, just discuss it openly.

### Community Improvement

Origin is just as much about community as it is about our technology.

We need constant help in improving our documentation, building new tools to interface with our platform, spreading the word to new users, helping new users getting setup and much more.

Please get in touch if you would like to help out. Our `general` channel on [Discord](#discord) is a great place to share ideas and volunteer to help.

### Full Time Positions

Origin occasionally hires developers for part time or full time positions. 

We have a strong preference for hiring people who have already started contributing to the project. If you want a full time position on our team, your best shot is to engage with our team and start contributing code. It is very unlikely that we would offer you a full time position on our engineering team unless you've had at least a couple approved pull requests first. 

If you are interested, check out [the Origin Protocol job listings](https://angel.co/originprotocol/jobs). If you'd like to help in other ways, propose your ideas on the [Origin Discord](#discord).
