# Authentication & Identity

## Identity verification

Users identities are tied to Ethereum addresses and your private keys are used as the sole method of authentication on the Origin platform.

Users can always prove ownership of a wallet without sending funds, simply by signing a message using their private keys.

Users can assume multiple identities by creating multiple wallets. In this manner, users can choose how much of their  off-line identities they wish to reveal to other users while participating on the Origin network.

Origin allows users to identify themselves using [publicly auditable proofs](#publicly-auditable-proofs) and attestations from [trusted third-parties](#trusted-third-parties).

<aside class="notice">
Make sure to safely store your private keys. We can't help if you lose them.
</aside>

## Publicly-Auditable Proofs 

A user can choose to identify themselves on other platforms using
publicly auditable proofs. A user can post their public key on
Facebook or Twitter and then cryptographically sign their listing using their
private key. Users can then include links in their listings to the Facebook post,
tweet or website that displays their public key. In this manner, anyone can
independently verify the poster’s identity, or at least confirm that they control
those accounts or domain. Origin.js simplifies this process for users by
making it easy to generate these proofs and verify the proofs of other users.
As people share their identity proofs on Facebook and Twitter, it will help 
create network effects as friends learn about Origin and decide to participate.

## Trusted Third-Parties

Users can also collect verifications from trusted third-parties like
[Civic](https://www.civic.com/), [uPort](https://www.uport.me/) or the Origin Foundation.
These third-party providers can provide identity verification 
that interfaces with the offline world. For example, a third-party identity provider 
may help confirm a physical address by sending a postcard with a special code to that address and then having the user enter that code on a website. Similar methods can be used to confirm control of a phone number or
email address. Trusted third-parties can also verify government IDs like drivers
licenses and passports which are required for certain types of listings like car
rentals.
